  
-   
- The fundamental problem is that this attitude toward time sets up a rigged game in which it's impossible ever to feel as though you're doing well enough. Instead of simply living our lives as they unfold in time - instead of just being time, you might say - it becomes difficult not to value each moment primarily according to its usefulness for some future goal, or for some future oasis of relaxation you hope to reach once your tasks are finally "out of the way". 
- The trouble with attempting to master your time, it turns our, is that time ends up mastering you. 
- If I could get enough work done, my subconscious had apparently concluded, I wouldn't need to ask if it was all that healthy to be deriving so much of my sense of self-worth from work in the first place. And as long as I was always just on the cusp of mastering my time, I could avoid the thought that what life was really demanding from me might involve surrendering the craving for mastery and diving into the unknown instead. 
- And most of our strategies for becoming more productive make things worse, because they're really just ways of furthering the avoidance. 
- "We labor at our daily work more ardently and thoughtlessly than is necessary to sustain our life," wrote Nietzsche, "because to us it is even more necessary not to have leisure to stop and think. Haste is universal because everyone is in flight from himself."
- The more you try to manage your time with the goal of achieving a feeling of total control, and freedom from the inevitable constraints of being human, the more stressful, empty, and frustrating life gets.
- Richard Bach: "You teach best what you most need to learn."
- [Anne Helen Petersen on Millennial Burnout](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/annehelenpetersen/millennials-burnout-generation-debt-work)
- The single best antidote to the feeling of time pressure, a splendidly liberating first step on the path of embracing your limits: the problem with trying to make time for everything that feels important - or just for enough of what feels important - is that you definitely never will. 
- "Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion," the English humorist and historian C. Northcote Parkinson wrote in 1955, coining what became known as Parkinson's law. 
- The more firmly you believe it ought to be possible to find time for everything, the less pressure you'll feel to ask whether any given activity is the best use for a portion of your time. 
- If you never stop to ask yourself if the sacrifice is worth it, your days will automatically begin to fill not just with more things, but with more trivial or tedious things, because they've never had to clear the hurdle of being judged more important than something else. Commonly, these will be things that other people want you to do, to make their lives easier, and which you didn't think to try to resist. 
- To be, for a human, is above all to exist temporally, in the stretch between birth and death, certain that the end will come, yet unable to know when. We tend to speak about our having a limited amount of time. But it might make more sense, from Heidegger's strange perspective, to say that we are a limited amount of time. That's how completely our limited time defines us. 
- As I make hundreds of small choices throughout the day, I'm building a life - but at one and the same time, I'm closing off the possibility of countless others, forever. 
	- Our "Sister Ship"
- We must live out our lives, to whatever extent we can, in cleareyed acknowledgment of our limitations, in the undeluded mode of existence that Heidegger calls "Being-towards-death", aware that *this is it*, that life is not a dress rehearsal, that every choice requires myriad sacrifices, and that time is always already running out - indeed, that it may run out today, tomorrow, or next month. And so it's not merely a matter of spending each day "as if" it were your last, as the cliché has it. The point is that it always actually might be. 
- Surely only somebody who'd failed to notice how remarkable it is that anything *is*, in the first place, would take their own being as such a given - as if it were something they had every right to have conferred upon them, and never to have taken away. So maybe it's not that you've been cheated out of an unlimited supply of time; maybe it's almost incomprehensibly miraculous to have been granted any time at all. 
- I happen to be alive, and there's no cosmic law entitling me to that status. Being alive is just happenstance, and not one more day of it is guaranteed. 
- Your whole life is borrowed time. 
	- The shift in perspective on the last few bullets should make a striking effect on the experience of everyday annoyances. When you're trying to master your time, few things are more infuriating than a task or delay that's foisted upon you against your will, with no regard for the schedule you've painstakingly drawn up in your overpriced notebook. But when you turn your attention instead to the fact that you're in a position to *have* an irritating experience in the first place, matters are liable to look very different indeed. No longer focus on *what* you are doing or what you would rather be doing instead; notice also *that* you are doing it. 
- So what to do with your limited time? Each moment of decision becomes an opportunity to select from an enticing menu of possibilities, when you might easily never have been presented with the menu to begin with. And it stops making sense to pity yourself for having been cheated of all the other options. So making a choice - picking one item from the menu - no longer represents some sort of defeat, but is now an affirmation. It's a positive commitment to spend a given portion of time doing *this* instead of *that* - instead of an infinite number of other "thats" - because *this*, you've decided, is what counts the most right now. In other words, it's precisely the fact that I could have chosen a different and perhaps equally valuable way to spend this afternoon that bestows meaning on the choice I did make. 
- Procrastination of some kind is inevitable: indeed, at any given moment, you'll be procrastinating on almost everything, and by the end of your life, you'll have gotten around to doing virtually none of the things you theoretically could have done. So the point isn't to eradicate procrastination, but to choose more wisely what you're going to procrastinate on, in order to focus on what matters most. The real measure of any time management technique is *whether or not it helps you neglect the right things*. 
- The story of fitting rocks, pebbles, and sand into a jar is a lie. It's rigged from the beginning because the demonstrator knows that the bigger rocks are going to fit into the jar ahead of time. What if someone has more big rocks than what fit into the jar? The real problem of time management today, though, isn't that we're bad at prioritizing the big rocks. It's that there are too many rocks - and most of them are never making it anywhere near that jar. The critical question isn't how to differentiate between activities that matter and those that don't but what to do when far too many things feel at least somewhat important, and therefore arguable qualify as big rocks. The answer coalesces around three main principles:
	- Pay yourself first when it comes to time
		- If you try to find time for your most valued activities by first dealing with all the other important demands on your time, in the hope that there'll be some left over at the end, you'll be disappointed. So if a certain activity really matters to you - a creative project, nurturing a relationship, activism in the service of some cause - the only way to be sure it will happen is to do some of it today, no matter how little, and no matter how many other genuinely big rocks may be begging for your attention. 
		- If you don't save a bit of your time for you, now, out of every week, there is no moment in the future when you'll magically be done with everything and have loads of free time. 
	- Limit your work in progress
		- Perhaps the most appealing way to resist the truth about your finite time is to initiate a large number of projects at once; that way, you get to feel as though you're keeping plenty of irons in the fire and making progress on all fronts. Instead, what usually ends up happening is that you make progress on no fronts - because each time a projects starts to feel difficult, or frightening, or boring, you can bounce off to a different one instead. You get to preserve your sense of being in control of things, but at the cost of never finishing anything important. The alternative approach is to fix a hard upper limit on the number of things that you allow yourself to work on at any given time (say, three projects). It will no longer be possible to ignore the fact that your capacity for work is strictly finite - because each time you select a new task from your to-do list, as one of your three work-in-progress items, you are obliged to contemplate all those you will inevitable be neglecting in order to focus on it. And yet, precisely because you are being forced to confront reality in this way - to see that you are *always* neglecting most tasks, in order to work on anything at all, and that working on everything at once simply isn't an option - the result will be a powerful sense of undistracted calm, and a lot more productivity. This will also lead you to naturally break down your projects into manageable chunks. For example, "write a book" is going to clog up that spot in your to-do list for months or years, so it's natural to be motivated to figure out the next achievable step in each case. 
	- Resist the allure of middling priorities
		- From Warren Buffett - Create a list of the 25 things you want most out of life and then arrange them in order, from the most important to the least. The top five should be those around which you organize your time. The remaining 20 - actively avoid at all costs - because they're the ambitions insufficiently important to you to form the core of your life yet seductive enough to distract him from the ones that matter most. 
		- You need to learn how to start saying no to things you *do* want to do, with the recognition that you have only one life. 
- If you are procrastinating on something because you are worried that you won't do a good enough job, you can relax - because judged by the flawless standards of your imagination, you definitely *won't* do a good enough job. So you might as well make a start. 
- Robert Goodin (American political theorist) observes that we tend to contrast a life of settling with a life of what he labels "striving", or living life to the fullest. But this is a mistake, too, and not just because settling is unavoidable but also because living life to the fullest *requires* settling. "You must settle, in a relatively enduring way, upon something that will be the object of your striving, in order for that striving to count as striving", he writes: you can't become and ultra-successful lawyer or artist or politician without first "settling" on law, or art, or politics, and therefore deciding to forgo the potential rewards of other careers. If you flit between them all, you'll succeed in none of them. Likewise, there's no possibility of a romantic relationship being truly fulfilling unless you're willing, at least for a while, to settle for that specific relationship, with all its imperfections - which means spurning the seductive lure of an infinite number of superior imaginary alternatives. 
- When you can no longer turn back, anxiety falls away, because now there's only one direction to travel: forward into the consequences of your choice. 
- It hardly matters how committed you are to making the best use of your limited time if, day after day, your attention gets wrenched away by things on which you never wanted to focus. 
- Philosophers have been worrying about distraction at least since the time of ancient Greeks, who saw it less as a matter of external interruptions and more as a question of character - a systemic inner failure to use one's time on what one claimed to value the most. Their reason for treating distraction so seriously was straightforward, and it's the reason we ought to do so, too: what you pay attention to will define, for you, what reality is. 
- Most resources on which we rely as individuals - such as food, money, and electricity - are things that *facilitate* life, and in some cases it's possible to live without them, at least for a while. Attention, on the other hand, just *is* life: your experience of being alive consists of nothing other than the sum of everything to which you pay attention. At the end of your life, looking back, whatever compelled your attention from moment to moment is simply what your life will have been. So when you pat attention to something you don't especially value, it's not an exaggeration to say that you're paying with your life. Seen this way, "distraction" needn't refer only to momentary lapses in focus, as when you're distracted from performing your work duties by the ping of an incoming text message, or a compellingly terrible news story. The job itself could be a distraction - that is, an investment of a portion of your attention, and therefore your life, in something less meaningful that other options that might have been available to you. 
- But the crucial point isn't that it's wrong to choose to spend your time relaxing, whether at the beach or on Buzzfeed. It's that the distracted person isn't really choosing at all. Their attention has been commandeered by forces that don't have their highest interests at heart. 
- When you aim for this degree of control over your attention, you're making the mistake of addressing one truth about human limitation - your limited time, and the consequent need to use it well - by denying another truth about human limitation, which is that achieving total sovereignty over your attention is almost certainly impossible. 
- After all, to have any meaningful experience, you must be able to focus on it, at least a bit. Otherwise, are you really *having* it at all? Can you have an experience you don't experience? The finest meal at a Michelin-starred restaurant might as well be a plate of instant noodles if your mind is elsewhere; and a friendship to which you never actually give a moment's thought is a friendship in name only. 
- Each time you open a social media app, there are "a thousand people on the other side of the screen" paid to keep you there. 
- Something in us wants to be distracted, whether by our digital devices or anything else - to *not* spend our lives on what we though we cared about the most. The calls are coming from inside the house.
- The more intensely he could hold his attention on the experience of whatever he was doing, the clearer it became to him that the real problem had been not the activity itself but his internal resistance to experiencing it. When he stopped trying to block out those sensations and attended to them instead, the discomfort would evaporate. 
	- On a story of a man who trained to be a monk, where one of the exercises was to dump ice-cold water on yourself day after day. 
- It's not usually that you're sitting there, concentrating rapturously, when your attention is dragged away against your will. In truth, you're eager for the slightest excuse to turn away from what you're doing, in order to escape how disagreeable it feels to be doing it; you slide away to the Twitter pile-on or the celebrity gossip site with a feeling not of reluctance but of relief. We're told that there's a "war for our attention" with Silicon Valley as the invading force. But it that's true, our role on the battlefield is often that of collaborators with the enemy. 
- Mary Oliver calls this inner urge toward distraction "the intimate interrupter" - that "self within the self, that whistles and pounds upon the door panels", promising an easier life if only you'd redirect your attention away from the meaningful but challenging task at hand, to whatever's unfolding one browser tab away. "One of the puzzling lessons I have learned", observes the author Gregg Krech, describing his own experience of the same urge, "is that, more often than not, I do not feel like doing most of the things that need doing. I'm not just speaking about cleaning the toilet bowl or doing my tax returns. I'm referring to those things I genuinely desire to accomplish."
- Whenever we succumb to distraction, we're attempting to flee a painful encounter with our finitude - with the human predicament of having limited time, and more especially, in the case of distraction, limited control over that time, which makes it impossible to feel certain about how things will turn out. 
- No wonder we seek distractions online, where it feels as though no limits apply - where you can update yourself instantaneously on events taking place a continent away, present yourself however you like, and keep scrolling forever through infinite newsfeeds, drifting through "a realm in which space doesn't matter and time spreads out into an endless present", to quote the critic James Duesterberg. It's true that killing time on the internet often doesn't feel especially *fun*, these days. But it doesn't need to feel fun. In order to dull the pain of finitude, it just need to make you feel unconstrained. This also makes it easier to see why the strategies generally recommended for defeating distraction - digital detoxes, personal rules about when you'll allow yourself to check your inbox, and so forth - rarely work, or at least not for long. They involve limiting your access to the things you use to assuage your urge toward distraction, and in the case of the most addictive forms of technology, that's surely a sensible idea. But they don't address the urge itself. Even if you quit Facebook, or ban yourself from social media during the workday, or exile yourself to a cabin in the mountains, you'll probably still find it unpleasantly constraining to focus on what matters, so you'll find some way to relieve the pain by distracting yourself: be daydreaming, taking an unnecessary nap, or - the preferred option of the productivity geek - redesigning your to-do list and reorganizing your desk. The overarching point is that what we think of as "distractions" aren't the ultimate cause of our being distracted. They're just the places we go to seek relief from the discomfort of confronting limitation. The reason it's hard to focus on a conversation with your spouse isn't that you're [[surreptitiously]] checking your phone beneath your dinner table. On the contrary, "surreptitiously checking your phone beneath the dinner table" is what you do *because* it's hard to focus on the conversations - because listening takes effort and patience and a spirit of surrender, and because what you hear might upset you, so checking your phone is naturally more pleasant. 
- The most effective way to sap distraction of its power is just to stop expecting things to be otherwise - to accept that this unpleasantness is simply what feels like for finite humans to commit ourselves to the kinds of demanding and valuable tasks that force us to confront our limited control over how our lives unfold. 
- (Continuing the story about the man dumping ice on himself in monk training) . . . his suffering subsided only when he resigned himself to the truth of his situation: when he stopped fighting the facts and allowed himself to more fully feel the icy water on his skin. The less attention he devoted to objecting to what was happening to him, the more attention he could give to what was actually happening. The way to find peaceful absorption in a difficult project, or a boring Sunday afternoon, isn't to chase feeling of peace or absorption, but to acknowledge the inevitability of discomfort, and to turn more of your attention to the reality of your situation than to railing against it. 
- "Hofstadter's Law" states that any task you're planning to tackle will always take longer than you expect, "even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law. It follows from this that the standard advice about planning - to give yourself twice as long as you think you'll need - could actually make matters worse. 
- The trouble with being so emotionally invested in planning for the future, though, is that while it may occasionally prevent a catastrophe, the rest of the time it tends to exacerbate the very anxiety it was supposed to ally. The obsessive planner, essentially, is demanding certain reassurances from the future - but the future isn't the sort of thing that can ever provide the reassurance he craves, for the obvious reason that it's still in the future. 
- The fuel behind worry, in other words, is the internal demand to know, in advance, that things will turn out fine: that your partner *won't* leave you, that you *will* have sufficient money to retire, that a pandemic *won't* claim the lives of anyone you love, that your favored candidate *will* win the next election, that you *can* get through your to-do list by the end of Friday afternoon. But the struggle for control over the future is a stark example of your refusal to acknowledge our built-in limitations when it comes to time, because it's a fight the worrier obviously won't win. You can never truly be certain about the future. And so your reach will always exceed your grasp. 
- You only ever get to feel certain about the future once it's already turned into the past. 
- The point isn't that it's a bad ideas to make plans, or save money for retirement, or remember to vote, so as to increase the chances that the future will turn our the way you'd like. Our efforts to influence the future aren't the problem. The problem - the source of all the anxiety - is the need that we feel, from our vantage point here in the present moment, to be able to know that those efforts will prove successful. It's fine, of course, to strongly prefer that your partner never leave your, and to treat him or her in ways that makes happy outcome more likely. But it's a recipe for a life of unending stress to insist that you must be able to feel certain, now, that this is how your relationship is definitely going to unfold in the future. So a surprisingly effective antidote to anxiety can be to simply realize that this demand for reassurance form the future is one that will definitely never be satisfied - no matter how much you plan or fret, or how much extra time you leave to get to the airport. You *can't* know that things will turn out all right. The struggle for certainty is an intrinsically hopeless one - which means you have permission to stop engaging in it. The future just isn't the sort of thing you get to order around like that, as the French mathematician and philosopher Blaise Pascal understood: "So imprudent are we that we wander in the times which are not ours . . . We try to give the present the support of the future, and think of arranging matters which are not in our power, for a time which we have no certainty of reaching."
- *I don't mind what happens.* Perhaps these words need a little unpacking: I don't think Krishnamurti means to say that we shouldn't feel sorrow, compassion, or anger when bad things happen to ourselves or others, not that we should give up on our efforts to prevent bad things from happening in the future. Rather, a life spend "not minding what happens" is one lived without the inner demand to know that the future will conform to your desires for it - and thus without having to be constantly on edge as you wait to discover whether or not things will unfold as expected. None of that means we can't act wisely in the present to reduce the chances of bad developments later on. And we can still respond, to the best of our abilities, should bad things nonetheless occur; we're not obliged to accept suffering or injustice as part of the inevitable order of things. But to the extent that we can stop demanding certainty that things will go our way later on, we'll be liberated from anxiety in the only moment it ever actually is, which is this one. 
- There's another sense in which treating time as something we own and get to control seems to make life worse. Inevitably, we become obsessed with "using it well," whereupon we discover an unfortunate truth: the more you focus on using time well, the more each day begins to feel like something you have to *get through*, en route to some calmer, better, more fulfilling point in the future, which never actually arrives. The problem is one of instrumentalization. To use time, by definition, is to treat is instrumentally, as a means to an end, and of course we do this every day: you don't boil the kettle out of love of boiling kettles, or put your socks in the washing machine out of a love for operating washing machines, but because you want a cup of coffee or clean socks. Yet it turns out to be perilously easy to overinvest in this instrumental relationship to time - to focus exclusively on where you're headed, at the expense of focusing on where you are - with the result that you find yourself living mentally in the future, locating the "real" value of your life at some time that you haven't yet reached, and never will. 
- We treat everything we're doing - life itself, in other words - as valuable only insofar as it lays the groundwork for something else. 
- To live with a future-focused attitude (e.g., when I complete *x* I can finally relax), or treating every moment of your experience as worthwhile only in terms of bringing yourself closer to the completion of a project so you can move onto the next one, or move up the ranks, or move toward retirement, is arguably insane - but it's an insanity that gets inculcated in us early in life, as the self-styled "spiritual entertainer" and New Age philosopher Alan Watts explained with characteristic vigor: Take education. What a hoax. As a child, you are sent to nursery school. In nursery school, they say you are getting ready to go on to kindergarten. And then first grade is coming up and second grade and third grade . . . In high school, they tell you you're getting ready for college. And in college you're getting ready to go out into the business world . . . People are like donkeys running after carrots that are hanging in front of their faces from sticks attached to their own collars. They are never here. They never get there. They are never alive. 